right now the biggest way to gain
traffic isn't to just go out there and
do what everyone else is doing is to
translate your content and update your
content see the majority of the world
doesn't speak english as you already
know but
the majority of the content on the web
is in english
before we get started make sure you
subscribe to this channel and if you're
on youtube click the alert notification
cool so neil thank you so much for
joining us today this is a big one for
me as a marketer myself i'm really
really excited to be getting chatty with
you today it's funny because i was doing
some research this morning a little bit
of extra stuff scrubbing up on stuff and
i read something uh which is really
interesting i read that you were a bit
of a rascal growing up that at 15 years
old you started selling burnt cds i find
that really really interesting i don't
know why but you've clearly displayed
this ability to be able to find
opportunities from a very young age to
obviously where you are now being worth
tens of millions of dollars and so what
i'd really love to know is what is it
that people need to look out for people
who are watching this who maybe are
desperately looking for opportunities
what is it that people need to consider
when they're trying to find
opportunities in life well the first
thing is is you got to solve real
problems if you're not solving real
problems
you're not going to end up doing well in
the long run you know it's just like
when people are looking for
opportunities they're like we're gonna
make a quick money
if people don't have that problem and
you have a solution but there's no
problem
then you're gonna be selling something
that people don't need
so the best place to look is what
problems are people facing and how can
you solve them and ideally your solution
needs to be easy to use and affordable
and if you can do those two things
that's great and then the next thing i
would really look for is
look are you passionate because if
you're not passionate you're not going
to put in the time and energy required
to succeed in the long run you got to
keep pushing forward you got to put in
the time you got to put in the energy
and if you don't do that it's hard to
succeed
amazing thank you and so you've worked
for your fair share of businesses and
enterprises are you always following
passion then
over
potential financial gain
typically yes i i solve uh
passion and not just passion but passion
and solving problems because those two
combined typically because of financial
gain going after a financial gain
doesn't mean you're going to make money
there's so many people out there who
want to make money just saying i want to
make money and do whatever it takes
doesn't do crap for you you gotta really
solve problems that a lot of people face
a hundred percent i can agree more with
that i've found
certainly in my own life that
the the initial
goal for me was always okay i want to
pursue money and i want to find money
and that was kind of the superficial
idea of what success actually is and
then you get a little bit behind you and
you realize that those materialistic
things or having that cash in the bank
doesn't really do an awful lot for you
in the grand scheme of life and so i
think it's really important for anybody
listening to this that following your
passion is is really important and
you've found your passion in marketing
and have become
if not
the most
influenced influential or well-known
name in the marketing space um and so
what was it that progressed due to
stumbling across marketing did it just
so happened to did you just so so
happened to stumble across marketing one
day or was there a natural progression
to finding that that proper passion
there was a natural progression see a
lot of people find their passion not
because they grow up being like i want
to be a firefighter i want to be a
doctor i want to be a policeman
they or policewoman
they grow up they think these things but
then as they get older they find that
they don't want to do any of them and
then they tend to be lost and not sure
what they want to do but that's normal
that's actually the majority of people
so what tends to happen is
you try stuff and eventually it leads
you down a path of what you're naturally
better at what you enjoy what you're
passionate about for example i started a
job board i got no visitors to my job
board i paid some marketing companies
they didn't do well i lost my money so i
had no choice but to learn how to do it
and as i started doing it i fell in love
with it and that became my passion
amazing i love that and and you've been
talking of the passion i mean you're
putting out so much content at the
moment i mean you put me to shame and
what content you're putting out there
and so
i would love to dig a bit deeper
probably rather selfishly into
what your your content strategy is like
at the moment how are you churning out
so much content now presumably you have
a team who are doing this for you but
what does that look like if you don't
mind revealing that for us guys
sure so
right now what it looks like is i write
a blog post myself
on top of that i have an editor kelsey
and
a team of people who help as well and
they'll crank out like
the mundane content such as like how to
set up conversion tracking in google
analytics right like the boring stuff
that doesn't require
um a ton of personal experience or
anything like that and then i'll crank
out the ones that are more related to my
experiences what i've seen
and things like that but the process is
breaking down based on content that is
experience based or just mundane stuff
like how to do a 301 redirect right
because some people are looking up for
basic information
and for those content pieces
other people can help write them on my
team and then i'll write the stuff that
requires the life experiences okay and
are you creating one large like larger
piece of content such as the blog and
then dissecting individual smaller
pieces across your other platforms for
example you're posting quite regularly
on i mean your youtube channel but also
instagram and facebook and all these
micro pieces of content as well so are
you adopting a model where you're
dissecting
smaller parts of much larger content
that you're producing on the top end
yeah so so my model is
i i just blanket the web with content
that people search for so i use tools
like uber suggest look at keyword volume
and then i just blanket the web with
anything someone's searching for related
to my space that's a real strategy yeah
okay sweet and that's that's actually
similar to how i've launched my youtube
channel and i preach that all the time
is that finding that what people are
searching for i often say that look at
what your competitors
their their followers are actually
posting in the comments section and what
they're asking for their for your
competitors to actually create content
about and it's usually the content that
they're afraid that is too valuable to
actually put out which then paves the
way for someone else to come across and
actually create that content that
everybody is actually screaming for and
desiring so um and so you're using what
tools are using you said using uh
which seo tool was that they're using to
find search results uber suggests
and i use that for youtube as well
because the chrome extension gives you
all the youtube data amazing is that
your company uber suggests
yeah
convenient can
build the tools that you need the most
that's okay why not
love that neil i was i created a youtube
video which i i uploaded yesterday and
actually today and i was talking about
the future trends of digital marketing
and where this industry is going and
i don't think there's many people out
there more qualified to than you to talk
on the topic and i'd love to know from
your perspective i'll highlight a few
ones that i mentioned in there shortly
but i would love to know if there are
any trends right now or things to look
out for in the coming years that
marketers really need to be mindful of
and start adopting um and mainly just
you've got some background the majority
of my audience are agency owners
marketing agency owners and so yeah what
are the trends that you think that we
should keep eyes to the ground on right
now
yeah so
uh and just in general for all marketing
correct
yes
correct so
the big trend that i see right now that
very few people are paying attention to
is voice now according to comscore
fifty percent of searches now are voice
search in the united states
but here's what's crazy by i think they
said 2022 i think it's according to occ
strategy it's a consulting company
around 40 billion dollars is going to be
transacted through voice search that's a
lot of money how many people are
thinking about voice search when it
comes to commerce very few people right
heck very few people even think about
voice search
another trend that we end up seeing is
right now the biggest way to gain
traffic isn't to just go out there and
do what everyone else is doing is to
translate your content and update your
content see the majority of the world
doesn't speak english as you already
know but
the majority of the content on the web
is in english so translations provide a
huge lift and so does updating content
because there's over a billion blogs
there's going to keep being more and
more there's eventually going to be you
know blog for every single person right
now there's a blog for roughly every
seven people in this world that's one
too many blogs so google has this prime
pickings facebook has this prime
pickings linkedin has prime pickings
if you update your content you tend to
do better in the long run because they
want fresh
uh content to rank versus old outdated
information
fantastic voice search was actually one
of the top things that i i spoke about
and i used that exact statistic as well
i was absolutely mind blown and how i
think it's a two billion dollar industry
as of 2020 and then projected to
progress to 40 billion which is such a
huge amount of growth about
do you do you understand how how it's
how it actually works on the back end
how because presumably there's only
going to be like one to three products
which are going to be able to to meet
the cut to actually get to the top
because if i'm asking alexa hey alexa i
want to i want to
buy a lawnmower to mow my lawn and then
how how are we going to be able to get
our products at the top of that search i
mean presumably it's going to be paid
uh it could be paid but it could also be
seo too right uh if you have the best
reviews the best products the best
listings the best images it all helps so
think about what you do for the organic
approach it also can help with the voice
approach
amazing okay so
for everybody listening if you're
selling products right now and even if
you've got for your clients as well
really be mindful of
your clients seo with regards to the
with the seo around their product pages
um and so they can
they can be future proof when it comes
to voice search because this is going to
be something that isn't going away i
think it was 55 percent of all american
households are going to have some kind
of was predicted again by 2022 to have
um
some kind of voice search
enabled tool such as a smart speaker in
their home and so yeah that certainly
isn't going another thing that people
that we were talking about a lot of
people get scared about is ai and the
effect on marketers and a lot of people
think that ai is built to take masters
away it's going to be it's going to
eliminate all marketing companies out
there and we'll all be obsolete what's
your opinion on ai and its influence on
advertising right now
yeah ai just makes it where look it
makes your job easier as a marketer if
something's been done a thousand times
why can't you program a computer to just
do it for you and figure it out so
through machine learning and ai things
are going to get easier
um there's even companies out there that
can create blog content for you through
ai it's not perfect yet
but it could be a good start so just
when i look at all these little things
it'll add up and eventually
we'll be in a place where we can
automate a lot of stuff not everything
but a lot
yeah i i feel exactly the same way are
you are you using any tools at the
moment with your advertising efforts
with ai-based tools i had i used a tool
called adexed and i didn't get on too
well that the the the ads that it
created weren't that great which kind of
drawed it to the conclusion that maybe
the technology wasn't advanced enough
yet to be able to take creating
audiences out of our hands completely
yet but yeah are you using any tools
which you've found that have worked well
no i haven't found any that work well
we've tested a lot we think it's a year
or two away
yeah okay sweet and the the final thing
that we spoke about with the future
trends was interactive video as well um
and interactive video funnels because
it's amazing to me how
little companies are actually using
interactive video and interactive
based content right now uh because
essentially you can create well as you
know you can create entire funnels just
within a singular video for example like
a pet store could be advertising
products and at the start you can choose
whether you're a dog owner or a pet
owner and the whole video can pan out
personalized to that individual person
have you got experience with with
interactive videos have you used them in
your own marketing effort so far
we have uh it works well we've even gone
further we even do interactive chat uh
we do interact with technically chat is
interactive anyways but uh we do
interactive emails did you know you can
actually do a whole checkout process and
searching within an email and you don't
have to go back to our website so we've
done it through that as well and we're
taking a lot of different formats out
there
and seeing what we can make super
interactive because
there's no reason for people have to go
out
and just go do everything manually right
like there's no reason
uh
why you have to create a terrible user
experience for that to click a button go
to the website and then do a search
again and just go through instead of it
just being seamless and integrate
whether it's through video email
whatever it may be there could be a lot
of personalization and interaction and
we look at interaction more as
personalization because that's the whole
goal and when you personalize we're
seeing conversion rates go up
amazing what is the tool that you're
actually using for uh email
interactive emails or are you just doing
that for your crm
no we built it custom for ourselves ah
okay okay nice that's that's something
that we've been looking at a lot it's
trying to to to we one thing we changed
in our emails is we
in recent updates so people can choose
when they want to receive the next email
from us so with our newsletter say hey
do you want to receive our next
newsletters or our next email tomorrow
or right now or do you want to receive
in a week's time so that's something
we've certainly been testing out and
we're seeing that i mean also when you
have that kind of thing it's then your
emails are being flagged up
green so people are actually responding
and interacting so it's just healthy for
your overall account um and yeah that's
definitely something that if anybody is
is doing email marketing right now
absolutely uh try and introduce some
kind of interactivity to it and neil
your story is um so inspirational to
both myself as a marketer but as to so
many people on this on my channel who
have mentioned your name before and you
are one of the most requested names i've
had to do an interview on my channel and
so i'm really really honored to have you
on here today i would love to know
and i'm going to get really generic here
but i would love to know what neil
patel's secret to success is what is
your what is
your
secret
to scaling up to the levels that you
have
um but not just in your businesses
because you've created products which
have
filled gaps that other people haven't
filled before you but more so in your
brand and your personal brand and the
perception of your brand which so many
people have
huge amounts of respect for you within
the marketing field what do you think it
is which has enabled you to grow
so big
two things focus you gotta focus on one
niche one vertical one sector whatever
it may be and two is persistence you
just keep at it and you really just keep
at it and you try to fine tune and get
better and grow you'll get there like
i've been doing this since i was 15 and
a half i'm 35 right now right so roughly
20 years
so when you think about it persistence
and focus can get you there just
everyone looks to get the results within
a year five years
give it 10 give it 20. see what happens
100 people i've forgotten who said that
people underestimate or overestimate
what they can achieve in one year but
underestimate what they can achieve in
10. are you a morning guy or an evening
guy where do when do you get the core of
your work done
morning i wake up really early indeed
how early
uh usually around 5 30. amazing can you
give us a bit of run down of your
routine
sure
wake up check emails pick up my daughter
from uh her bed
she wakes up around 6 30 6 6 30
somewhere around there
uh bring her to my wife
baby so she has to feed her uh probably
too many details there but uh
from there
uh
you know brush workout more emails calls
meetings
uh every once in a while i'll blog
throughout each day but that's it
this is interesting to interrupt you
it's interesting that you said that you
check your emails first thing in the
morning because so many other people say
never check your emails first thing in
the morning and i i try and stay away
from it because i find that my to-do
list then doesn't get done because
whatever has come up on my email seems
to be more important to me than so i i i
would presume you've got like a a inbox
which is only really important things or
how do you how do you allow yourself to
not get distracted by everything that
you're seeing first thing
i have multiple inboxes i manage one of
them my team manages i think three or
four for me
okay okay so you're only seeing the
really important stuff
uh you'll be shocked and how many people
subscribing to the newsletters that i
have no clue who they are but in general
my email volume isn't that bad i'd
probably go through 150 to 200 a day
myself
oh amazing
that's that's that's that's respectable
okay
150 emails i think i'm hard done by by
going through 30 or 40 emails in a day
and i'll complain that that's too many
for me to go through so i probably need
to take some slack off the pa and bring
some back to me
neil
thank you so much for for doing this
interview today i want to just round off
by a quick fire question and you can
just tell me uh off the top of your mind
which of uh which of these comes to mind
because you probably got obligations in
all of these platforms but i want to
know
what is neil patel's favorite
advertising platform right now
google
google okay
keyword based it's easier to convert
facebook is great too i'll pick that as
my number two but i love google everyone
says it's expensive but it still works
and drives a ton of traffic
yeah and i couldn't agree more and not
enough people this is it's really
strange that all of a sudden or not all
of a sudden but facebook is almost taken
uh in the perception in the mind of new
marketers anyway facebook is seen as
like the holy grail and it's like
facebook instagram that's all we do and
in so many cases companies are not even
new companies anyway are kind of
overseeing or overlooking uh google
because they think that facebook and
instagram because they've been pushed so
heavily in the latest years
they think that
it's so much better and it couldn't be
further from the truth because with
google
for anybody that hasn't used a google
advertisement platform you're getting
essentially you're getting inbound leads
into your business okay with facebook
we're putting our products in front of
people with google we're essentially
relying on people searching and then
finding us and we're paying to get
ourselves at the top of rankings again
for them youtube ads as well which are
it's just a different kind of fish but
um yeah i went around this interview up
neal so thank you so much for coming on
today i really really appreciate it and
i hope everybody else has got a ton of
value from this video be sure to check
out neil on youtube neil it's youtube
from the most active place you're
putting out content right now
youtube or my blog either one
okay fantastic guys i'll put link in the
description go check them out and again
thank you neil i hope you have a
wonderful day wherever you're in the
world right now too
thank you cheers